.\" Manpage for odrive-gui.
.\" Source: https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux
.TH ODRIVE-GUI 1 "May 2026" "odrive-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
odrive-gui \- GTK4 Manager for the odrive on-demand cloud sync agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odrive-gui
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B odrive-gui
is the GTK4 / Libadwaita Manager for odrive-linux. It launches an
onboarding wizard the first time you run it (or whenever any of its
preconditions stops being satisfied), then drops into a four-tab
dashboard:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B Mount & Sync
\(em mounts list, per-folder sync rules, lazy folder navigation.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Backup
\(em local-to-remote backup jobs.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Encrypt
\(em set the local passphrase for an existing zero-knowledge
encryptor folder.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Trash
\(em list, restore, and empty trashed items.
.RE
.PP
Preferences (hamburger menu \(-> Preferences) opens a separate
GNOME-Settings-shaped window with General / Appearance / Advanced /
Status sub-pages, exposing every CLI threshold plus the file-based
agent settings in
.IR ~/.odrive-agent/odrive_user_general_conf.txt
and
.IR odrive_user_premium_conf.txt .
A StatusNotifierItem icon ("tray icon") registers while the Manager
is running, with menu entries to open the odrive folder, focus the
Manager, pause/resume the agent, and quit. The icon animates while
transfers are in flight.
.PP
.B odrive-gui
takes no command-line arguments. All configuration lives in
.IR ~/.config/odrive-linux/
or in the Manager's Preferences window. State-changing operations
shell out to
.BR odrive-cli (1)
which in turn drives the official upstream
.B odrive
binary.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-agent/bin/
Default location for the upstream
.B odrive
and
.B odriveagent
binaries the Manager drives.
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-linux.db
SQLite database. Records placeholder index, folder sync rules, and
in-flight sync state shared with
.BR odrive-cli .
.TP
.I ~/.config/odrive-linux/config.toml
User configuration: agent binary directory, tray-icon colour, Nautilus
emblem preferences.
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/odrive.service
Systemd-user unit written by the onboarding wizard.
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-agent/log/main.log
Upstream agent log; view live from Preferences \(-> Status.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR odrive-cli (1),
.BR odrive (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.PP
Project home:
.UR https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Vassallo and contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Keith Vassallo. Distributed under the terms of the
GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or later.
.SH DISCLAIMER
.B odrive-linux
is an unofficial Linux frontend. This project is not affiliated with
Oxygen Cloud, Inc. or their odrive product. "odrive" is a registered
trademark of Oxygen Cloud, Inc.
