.\" Manpage for odrive-cli.
.\" Source: https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux
.TH ODRIVE-CLI 1 "May 2026" "odrive-linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
odrive-cli \- command-line wrapper for the odrive on-demand cloud sync agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odrive-cli
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIarguments\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B odrive-cli
is the Rust front-end of the odrive-linux Manager. It wraps every CLI
subcommand the Manager uses and exposes a few extras for desktop
integration: composing share URLs, opening placeholder MIME handlers,
and laying down the icon / MIME / .desktop registrations.

It does not talk to odrive's cloud directly. Every operation shells
out to the user's installed
.B odrive
binary (typically at
.IR ~/.odrive-agent/bin/odrive ).
The agent
.RB ( odriveagent )
must already be running for state-changing commands to succeed; use
.B odrive-cli start
or rely on the systemd-user unit the Manager's onboarding wizard
installs.

If
.B odrive-cli
is invoked with no command, it prints the agent status (equivalent to
.BR "odrive-cli status" ).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Print agent status plus the count of placeholders the Manager has
indexed in its local SQLite database.
.TP
\fBmounts\fR [\fB--paths\fR]
List active mounts. With
.BR --paths ,
prints only the local mount paths, one per line, for use in scripts.
.TP
.B start
Start the odrive agent. Tries
.B systemctl --user start odrive.service
first, falling back to
.B nohup odriveagent
if the unit isn't available.
.TP
.B stop
Stop the odrive agent.
.TP
\fBsync\fR \fIPATH\fR
Sync the file or folder at \fIPATH\fR. For a
.B *.cloud
placeholder this materialises the file; for a
.B *.cloudf
placeholder it expands the folder one level.
.TP
\fBunsync\fR \fIPATH\fR
Revert a materialised file or folder back to a
.B *.cloud
/
.B *.cloudf
placeholder, freeing local disk.
.TP
\fBrefresh\fR \fIPATH\fR
Re-check the remote for changes to the folder at \fIPATH\fR.
.TP
\fBsharelink\fR \fIPATH\fR
Generate a fresh share URL for the item at \fIPATH\fR and print it on
stdout. Each invocation creates a new URL — there is no upstream
"fetch existing link" form.
.TP
\fBcopy-share-link\fR \fIPATH\fR [\fIPATH\fR...]
Generate share URLs for one or more paths and write them
(newline-joined) to the system clipboard. Used by the Dolphin
"Copy Share Link" service-menu action. On Wayland the command shells
out to
.BR wl-copy ;
on X11 it falls back to
.BR xclip .
.TP
\fBweburl\fR \fIPATH\fR
Compose the odrive web-app URL for a local path and print it on
stdout.
.TP
\fBopen-web-preview\fR \fIPATH\fR
Compose the odrive web-app URL for a path and open it in the user's
default browser via
.BR xdg-open .
.TP
\fBscan\fR [\fIPATH\fR]
Scan a mount for
.B *.cloud
/
.B *.cloudf
placeholders and update the Manager's local SQLite index. Defaults to
.IR ~/odrive .
.TP
\fBopen\fR \fIPATH\fR
Materialise the placeholder at \fIPATH\fR (if it isn't already), then
open the result with
.BR xdg-open .
This is the command bound as the
.B Exec=
target of the
.B *.cloud
/
.B *.cloudf
MIME handler installed by
.BR install-handlers ;
double-clicking a placeholder in any file manager runs it.
.TP
.B install-handlers
Register MIME types for
.B *.cloud
/
.B *.cloudf
and set
.B odrive-cli
as the default handler. Writes to
.I ~/.local/share/{mime,applications,icons,nautilus-python}
and refreshes the relevant caches. Reversible via
.BR uninstall-handlers .
This is the development-time install path; users who installed via
.B .deb
or
.B .rpm
get the same registrations system-wide, written by the package's
post-install hook.
.TP
.B uninstall-handlers
Remove every MIME / desktop / icon entry written by
.BR install-handlers ,
plus the GVFS custom-icon metadata it added to existing mounts.
Per-user, idempotent.
.TP
\fBprepare-payload\fR \fIDST\fR [\fB--prefix\fR \fIPREFIX\fR]
Materialise the static package payload (icons in hicolor layout, MIME
XML, .desktop files with system paths, Nautilus extension, manpages)
under
.IB DST PREFIX /share/...
for the
.B .deb
/
.B .rpm
build pipelines. The default
.I PREFIX
is
.IR /usr .
Not for end users; idempotent.
.TP
.B setup
Per-user finalisation step a packaged install can't perform from
.BR postinst :
pad zero-byte placeholders so GLib's content-type guessing resolves
their MIME, apply the mount-folder icon to existing mounts, and set
the packaged opener as the
.B xdg-mime
default for placeholder MIMEs in
.IR ~/.config/mimeapps.list .
Run once after your first GUI mount; idempotent.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-agent/bin/
Default location for the upstream
.B odrive
and
.B odriveagent
binaries.
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-linux.db
SQLite database the Manager and CLI share for placeholder tracking,
folder sync rules, and in-flight sync state.
.TP
.I ~/.config/odrive-linux/config.toml
User configuration: agent binary directory, tray-icon colour, Nautilus
emblem preferences.
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/odrive.service
Systemd-user unit installed by the Manager's onboarding wizard so
.B odriveagent
starts on login.
.TP
.I ~/.odrive-agent/log/main.log
Upstream agent log. View live via the Manager's Preferences → Status
page.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ODRIVE_CLI
If set, certain helpers (the Nautilus extension, Dolphin plugins) use
this path to locate
.BR odrive-cli .
Otherwise they search
.BR PATH ,
then fall back to
.B target/release/odrive-cli
relative to themselves.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR odrive-gui (1),
.BR odrive (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.PP
Project home:
.UR https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/keithvassallomt/odrive-linux/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Vassallo and contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Keith Vassallo. Distributed under the terms of the
GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or later.
.SH DISCLAIMER
.B odrive-linux
is an unofficial Linux frontend. This project is not affiliated with
Oxygen Cloud, Inc. or their odrive product. "odrive" is a registered
trademark of Oxygen Cloud, Inc.
